Social Media Do's and Don'ts Checklist for College Students
ok so heres the stuff u should actually do on social media lol

✅ DO's - stuff u should def do
1. Do Adjust Your Privacy Settings
 make ur profile private or friends only (seriously)
 actually check who can see ur posts and pics
 turn off location tagging bc thats kinda creepy
 look at ur privacy stuff every now and then when the apps update
2. Do Think Before You Post
 like actually ask urself "would my prof see this?" lmao
 read over it once before hitting post
 think about if someone could take it the wrong way
 dont post when ur mad or drunk thats always a bad idea
3. Do Use Strong Passwords
 make different passwords for each account (i know its annoying but do it)
 mix up letters numbers and those weird symbols
 change it like every few months or whatever
 turn on 2FA if the app has it
4. Do Actually Be Nice Online
 treat ppl like ur actually talking to them face to face
 if u comment something make it not mean lol
 call out ppl being rude when u see it
 remember theres actual humans on the other end of these accounts
5. Do Check If Stuff Is Real Before Sharing
 like actually check if that news article is from a real place
 google it or something before u share it to ur story
 dont just believe everything u see on tiktok lmao
 ur helping spread fake stuff if u dont check first
6. Do Keep Ur Online Presence Chill
 use a decent profile pic
 write something normal in ur bio
 post stuff that actually represents u
 remember future jobs might look at this so maybe dont post absolutely everything
❌ DON'Ts - things that will ruin ur life basically
1. Don't Share Your Personal Info
 dont post ur address thats literally how ppl find u
 never post ur full birthday or banking stuff
 dont be like "im at home alone rn" or share ur schedule
 location posts are sus ngl
2. Don't Post Drunk/Stupid Stuff
 seriously dont post pics from parties when ur drunk
 no explicit stuff (obviously)
 offensive jokes will come back to haunt u trust me
 dont just post about controversial stuff without thinking
3. Don't Click Random Links
 if u dont recognize the link dont click it
 some scammers pretend to be ur friends its wild
 those "free money" things are literally never real
 dont download stuff from weird sites
4. Don't Be Mean to Ppl Online
 like seriously dont roast ppl in the comments
 dont screenshot and share pics of ppl to make fun of them
 dont start drama or get into fights online
 ppl actually get mental health issues from cyberbullying its not funny
5. Don't Post About Ur Classes/College Stuff
 if u cheated or plagiarized DONT POST ABOUT IT
 dont complain about ur professors publicly
 dont argue with classmates on social media
 ur private struggles dont need to be everyone's business
6. Don't Add Random Ppl
 if u dont know them dont add them??? like why would u
 dont message back to ppl who seem sus
 if an account looks fake it probably is
 just block weird ppl its not that deep
tldr (the quick version)
What	Do This	Dont Do That
Privacy	lock ur account down	tell ppl where u live lol
Posts	think first	post drunk pics
Passwords	make them hard	use "password123"
Being Nice	be chill	bully ppl online
Sharing	check first	spread fake news
Profile	keep it decent	post everything
Actually tho...
🔒 once u post it its out there forever – colleges and jobs literally check this stuff

💬 real ppl are reading ur posts – even if ur just trying to be funny

🛡️ ur responsible if ur account gets hacked – so make it actually secure

✨ u want ppl to think ur cool right? – then maybe dont post the dumbest version of urself

made this: march 2026 (or whatever)
